Hey everyone and welcome back. In this
quick tutorial, we're going to walk
through how to use the create tile set
sidescroller tool to generate seamless
tile sets. Let's dive right into the
interface. At the top, we have options
to set both an inner tile and a
transition
tile. These define the core textures and
transition area between different types
of terrain.
You can use the set button to select
tiles manually if you've already have
some that you wish to, or you can just
use the description area, which we have
down below. By default, the inner tile
is going to be rocks and the transition
tiles going to be grass. You can be as
detailed as you'd like. Feel free to
experiment. Underneath the descriptions,
we have the visual
details, which you can choose the
outline, shading, style, and detail
levels. These will affect how the tiles
are rendered visually. Just play around
with them and find out which one you
like best. I'm going to keep it default
for this tutorial. Next, we have the
tile size and transition size. The
transition size here is set to roughly
0.5
tiles, which blends the two textures
over half a tile. The tile size, so by
default, is going to be 16 by 16. For
this tutorial, we're going to use 32x
32. Uh with that in mind, the 0.5
uh transition
size is going to be roughly 16 pixels
tall. You can define your color palette
if you'd like, or you can let the
generator use its own colors. Then you
can later reduce them down to a specific
number, or you can use your own palette
again if you'd like. In the advanced
options, we have the tile strength,
which basically tells the model how well
the texture should tile seamlessly. I
normally keep it around eight or
10. Seems the lower you go,
the more creative a texture you get. the
AI border freedom. Basically, this the
higher you go, the more creative the
model gets along the lines of uh detail
for the transition. So, the siding of
the uh texture itself and the upper is
influenced on the border
freedom. So, I would play around with
this, see what you like best. I tend to
keep it around the like 250 and 150
area. The tile set adherence, the higher
you go with this, the more the
transition
side and surface aligns with the
texture. The higher this is, the more
your side is going to look like the
initial texture. The lower you go, the
more creative the textures on the
transition side gets. So, it won't be
influenced by the initial texture as
much. The guidance weight is pretty much
influenced by the
descriptions. And of course, you can
always find your previous generated
seeds and use those. By default, it's
going to be set at zero for a random
generation. All right, I'm going to go
ahead and start a generation.
Matter of fact, we're going to do two of
them real quick, then test out how they
work together.
Now that we have the generations
complete, we're going to go ahead and do
a quick little map.
Let's use the extend map tool real quick
to fix up any
imperfections such as the
seam of the two tiles colliding.
[Music]
And also the two corners here could use
a little touchup.
with those. We can also generate a
background and potentially extend our
tile set
further. To do this, I'm going to use
the create image
tool, then the
create
M.XL image new under the recommended
tab. For the
description, I'm going to use just
something simple like a RPG title screen
with no font or UI, a distant fantasy
kingdom and far mountains with a sky
background. It's probably not going to
generate all of it.
However, the more you describe, the more
detailed your image will get. And it's
best to have a good level of detail so
that the model knows what you want so
that you're not wasting generations. I'm
going to keep the camera view on
none and the direction on none so that
it generates
a a flat image with depth depending on
my
description. This is better for the
background images in my opinion.
All right. Now that we have it
generated, we can put it on a bottom
layer underneath our current tile set.
Uh depending on what you get, you can
splice it up into pieces, then extend it
further on that to have a longer
parallax, or you can continue to extend
it uh through the sides or uh the top or
bottom of the canvas. Just remember to
always select the tiles you have
currently and or background so that the
model knows what it's trying to mimic.
So, let's go ahead and switch back to
the extend map tool.
And we're going to
select both the background and the
current tiles to extend the map further.
Now that we have the map extended, we
can further it by going into the end
painting mode and draw masks on
top with a description for the extend.
This will regenerate that section that
is drawn over and doing so you will be
able to modify current tiles to fit your
needs similar to how we did the fixes
for the corners and the seam of the
tiles at the very
beginning. All right, I think that's
everything for the tutorial. Thanks for
watching. Have a good day.